YouTube Video Link:

https://youtu.be/xwbY7XyuG4k


Project Description:

In our project, we aim to provide efficient security and also a protective system to the user’s home. Our project is divided into two parts: one part deals with the security of the house and the other part deals with the fire alarm system. In the anti-theft system, it provides security inside the user’s home. Whenever any intruder, or thief enters the user’s house, there are various sensors installed within the system that detect the presence of the intruder and report it to the user. In the anti-theft system, we installed a force sensor on the floor so that whenever any intruder enters the house, the buzzer and LEDs will turn ON informing the user of an intruder alert. After a little time, a message will be sent to the user’s phone via Bluetooth alerting the user. If the user feels like it is a false alarm then the user can turn off the system via his phone. This will turn off the alarm system like the buzzer and LED however the sensors will still keep on sensing the information and it will again alert the user if there is any intruder. To permanently turn off the system, there is a kill switch that the user can press to turn off the anti-theft system. The user can press the switch again to turn on the anti-theft system. To further increase the security of the system, we also installed PIR sensors. PIR sensors detect changes in infrared radiation caused by the object within its range. So when any intruder moves within the range, the PIR sensor detects it and activates the alarms. The same message will be sent to the user’s phone and the user can turn it off via phone or completely deactivate the system via the kill switch. In the second part of our project, we have a fire alarm system. In the fire alarm system, there are sensors like flame sensor and DHT22. The flame sensor detects the presence of fire and DHT22 continuously measures the temperature. If the temperature is above a certain threshold of temperature, then the motor will start to sprinkle water. As the temperature increases, the speed at which the motor sprinkles water will also increase. Both LED and buzzer will also turn ON indicating the presence of fire. Subsequently, the user will receive a notification on their mobile device, alerting them to the presence of a fire.